# i18n

SA is using ember-i18n for internalization support.

## Creating new locales

All supported locales are available as folders under /client/sa/app/locales/<locale-name>/translation.js files
If you would like to create a new locale, run

```
    ember g locale <locale-name>
```

This would create an appropriate locale file under /client/sa/app/locales/*locale-name*/translation.js.

## Adding new strings

Currently the content of locale file is a json file that gets exported. It is encouraged to create a key for each module and add all
module related strings under the module key. For example, if you are adding a new string  "Create new reports" for the reporting engine
module, then the appropriate JSON would look like

```json
    reportingEngine:{
        ...
        createReport: "Create new report"
    }
```

## Using strings in templates

ember-cli-i18n exposes the "t" helper that can be used in templates to display the localized strings.

For example, if you have to use the newly created "createReport" string in create-report-engine.hbs file, you would just say

```html
    <h2>{{t 'reportingEngine.createReport'}}</h2>
```

This would render in html as

```html
    <h2>Create new report</h2>
```

### Types of strings

Strings can be simple, interpolated or pluralized strings.

```json
	sample:{
        helloWorld: 'Hello World!',
		welcomeText: 'Welcome to Ember %@1',
		notifications:{
	        one:'You have one notification',
	        other:'You have %@ notifications'
	    },
        alert:{
	        one:'You have one alert',
	        other:'You have %@ alerts'
        }
	}
```

Your handlebar template file would utilize the above strings as follows

``` html
    <h2>{{t 'sample.helloWorld'}}</h2>
    <section>{{t 'sample.welcomeText' "John Doe"}}</section>
    <div>{{t 'sample.notifications' 10}}</div>
    <div>{{t 'sample.alert' 1}}</div>
````

This markup will get transformed as follows

````html
    <h2>Hello World!</h2>
    <section>Welcome to Ember John Doe</section>
    <div>You have 10 notifications</div>
    <div>You have 1 alert</div>
````
For more details please see the ember-18n see https://github.com/jamesarosen/ember-i18n/blob/master/README.md


## Integrating the i18n component in templates

In order to integrate the i18n component in the templates, include the following line where the i18n options should be
presented to the user

```html
    {{render 'i18n'}}
```

This would insert the i18n dropdown. The i18n dropdown lists all the available locales.
Once user changes the locale, the component will automatically transform all the strings in the page to
the newly picked locale strings.
